Representational State Transfer - is a software architectural style that defines a set of constraints to be used
for creating Web services.

Restful api principles:
1. Client - Server. Client for UI, and server for backend, data storage - divided logic, so the client and server
can be developed in parallel and don't affect each other, since they talk thru api.
2. Stateless. No data about client context is stored on server side. Each request has enough information to process
it. Client app - is stateful, session state is stored on the client side.
3. Cashing. Clients, and proxy hosts, can cash information. In client's request should be headers that allows or 
not allows cashing, or to get response from cashed information. Improve performance.
Can be controlled by headers: Date, Last Modified, Expires, Age, Cache-Control(Public, Private, no-cache/no-store,
max-age, proxy-validate).
4. Uniform Interface between client and server. So server and client can be developed independent, but it should follow
the rules:
  1) Resource identifiers: Each resource has uniq ID URI (Uniform Resource Identifier) witch is a part of URL (locator)
   Each resource has his URI and verbs (methods) to interoperate with it. And resource drive data not data drive
   resource. Means that resource (dynamic) /latest can hold v1/v2/v3 version of data not the opposite.
  2) Manipulation resources thru presentations. Resources is separated from resource presentation, that returned to
  client. So server can store resource in XML, but return it in JSON, or HTML or any other. So client ask for  
  /latestPresentation -> resource: document -> representation: text + html.
  Content negotiation: means client should tell server what presentation he needs in Accept:text/plain, application/XML
  and server responses with header Content-Type:text/plain, application/XML.
  3) HATEOAS - Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State. Means further actions of client is depend on resource
  state for example, client ask for account state, if account is ok - returned links are - get money, close account etc,
  but if account is overdraft - only "put money in" available. Each response of data includes related to this
  data links. Main idea as I got - that client don't need to know what he can do with 
  resource, actions available in real-time.
5. Layered architecture. Architecture can contain proxy servers (proxy, gateways) like cashing, load balancers,
authenticators, that should stayed invisible for client. (like miscroservices). One layer know about existence
only further layer, not more, that's give ability to extend layers, and change functionality.
6. Code (not http code but code, like js) on demand - Java applets, Flash player, Javascript code sent to client
and executes on client side.

Rest-server and rest-client are:
Server - is server which responds to request, and provide, and manage the resources.
(Twitter has twits server he can share)
Client - is server that request the data, and gets the response, and operate with it.
(Your app that request the twits to show them)

Resources in REST.
Uniq data, with uniq URI. It can be collection of elements, ore one element.
URI - is identifier of the resource, for example name, URI not always could be a URL, because for example name only
gives information about who you are, not where are you. URI can be name and locator and both, but not always.
URL - is locator, it is address. So all URLs are URIs. URL has following format: Protocol://ServiceName/ResourceType/ResourceID
URN - Uniform resource name, it's a URI but presenting only name of resource.

The query parameter approach works just fine and REST does not stop you from using query parameters. 
E.g. http://MyService/Persons/1?format=json&encoding=UTF8

Each resource processed with a few verbs, methods.
GET/POST/PUT/PATCH/DELETE/HEAD

There are:
safe - means requests don't affect the resource.
idempotent - result of request is always the same.
cacheable - let's cache the result


GET/PUT/DELETE - idempotent
GET/OPTIONS/HED - safe

POST - we using mostly to create data, or update data that we don't know exactly.
PUT - here we should send all data of resource, with field we want to change, if there was no such field - we'll create
  it, if there was - re-write it.
PATCH - we send only id, and field we want to change, that's it.


HTTP request has:
<VERB>, <URI>, <HTTP version>
<Request header>
<Request body>

Request header - contains the metadata as a collection of key-value pairs of headers and their values.
These settings contain information about the message and its sender like client type, the formats client supports,
format type of the message body, cache settings for the response, and a lot more information.
Request Body - is the actual message content. In a RESTful service, that's where the representations of resources
sit in a message. There are no tags or markups to denote the beginning or end of a section in an HTML message.

HTTP response has:
<HTTP version>, <Response code>
<Response header>
<Response body>

Response code - 3 digits status of the request.
1xx - thing is ok so far, processing request (continue, switching protocol, etc.) 
2xx - successfully response (200 - ok, 201 - created, etc.)
3xx - redirection (300 - multiple choice, 301 - moved resource, etc.)
4xx - client error (400 - bad request, 401 - unauthorized, 403 - forbidden, 404 - not found, etc.)
5xx - server error (500 - internal server error, 501 - not implemented, etc.)
Response Header - contains the metadata and settings about the response message.
Response Body - contains the representation if the request was successfully.

SOAP API.
SOAP envelope - “конверт”, envelope that represent SOAP message. 
SOAP header - explains extra information about message, address, format.
SOAP body - message itself, presenting request and response from server. (XML формат)
Fault element which contains errors and status information.

WSDL – Web Service Description Language
SOAP – Simple Object Access Protocol
UDDI – Universal Description, Discovery and Integration
RDF – Resource Description Framework


Tools like: Postman, fiddler, JMeter, Gatling, SoapUI.

Websocket

Little history.
HTTP polling.
Simple request-response. To get the last updates from server, while you on http, client need to send request to server
and get updates if they are there. If updates not often to occur - it's ok. But if updates need every second?

HTTP long poling.
Client sends request to server that it needs updates, if no updates, server postpone this request and waits until
updates occur, or request timeout run out. If updates here - server sends the response, usually client immediately
sends another long polling request.
With HTML5 SSE - server sent events - long polling not so popular, sse - gives ability to client (via js) to sing up
himself on some server events. If events occur - server sends updates to client. It's a pushes from server to client.
But updates goes only from server to client. Plus is that sse works over http - no needs to use other technology.

Websocket protocol.
Full duplex, real-time connection between client and server. It's not a part of HTTP, but works on same ports 80,
443. Websocket is a abstraction level over tcp, witch adds to it security.

Why created?
1. Clients that needs updates from server each second - needs to create connection each time - with http headers,
cookies, which is heavy, with https and tls - even more heavier.
2. Client each time has to tell that he is present and available - extra requests.
3. Server needs to store updates for client and wait until he came up.
4. Resource and speed degradation.

How it works?
- Connection tru handshake and sending the HTTP upgrade to set the socket connection.
- Duplex, real-time bidirectional messages.
- one-side close channel message.

Pros:
- duplex
- no headers, cookie.
- works on same as http ports.

Cons:
- new functionality needs to be implemented;
- always open connection eats resources bandwidth (пропускная способность)

npm library - socket.io.

HTTP - hyper text transfer protocol

request:
----------------------
POST /booking HTTP 1.1  - verb, resource, protocol
----------------------
Host: api.booking.com   - headers
Accept: application/json (means I want back data in json)
Content-type: application/json (means I send you the data in json)
Content-length: 136
----------------------
{
  "room_id": "400",     - body
  "breakfast":"true"
}
----------------------

response
----------------------
HTTP 1.1 201 Created            - verb, status code
----------------------
Content-location: /bookings/aij3no2i3   - headers
Content-type: application/json
Content-length: 192
----------------------
{
  "id": "aij3no2i3",             - body
  "status":"created"
}
----------------------

PATCH example
----------------------
PATCH /booking/aij3no2i3 HTTP 1.1   - verb, resource, protocol
----------------------
Host: api.booking.com               - headers
Content-type: application/json
Content-length: 500
----------------------
[
  {
   <<op>>: <<replace>>,     (replace, remove, add, copy, test)
   <<path>>:<</booking/aij3no2i3>>
   <<value>>:<<{"breakfast":"true"}>>
  },
  {
     "room_id": "400",     - body
     "breakfast":"true"
  }
]

----------------------

So one of main ideas - is CRUD
Read:
GET - gets a resource in his body, response 200 OK

Create:
POST

Update:
PUT - send all data to update, returns 200 OK with full body, or if data is too big - header 204 No-content
POST - send only fields that you need, but there is some trouble: we doing idempotent action (UPDATE), with non-idempotent
  verb, that's not good, + we can delete something from hole collection, that could cost troubles. Better use
PATCH - sends instructions in body how resource should be updated, updates only passed fields. Non-idempotent in front
 of PUT. It can be idempotent, but not require to. For example we send :
 {change: 'Name' from: 'benjamin franklin' to: 'john doe'}, second request will fail since it 'Name' is not
 'benjamin franklin' anymore, idempotent? I don't think so.

Delete:
DELETE - send in header URI - response 200 OK, idempotent but remember that state of resource won't change but status
 can: 200/204/404/410 410(Preconditions failed, when you tried to search some resource and search failed for ex.)

Headers:
Content-location: location of created resource, URI, we can use it to interoperate with this resource, instead of getting it
  once again, since POST returned URI and created resource in POST body - we don't need GET.
Last-modified: when it was last updated.
Date: when response was generated.
E-tag: hash of resource, instead of sending the whole representation - we can response with hash.


Few restrictions:
- unknown headers ignored
- duplicate headers not allowed
- only one Content-type
- Multi headers values separated by coma.

In body if file is too long we cut it to chunks and set content-length of chunk.